# CIP scripts and automation
## DISCLAIMER
DISCLAIMER: This repository is provided without any warranty or gurantee of accuracy.  As the maintainer, I cannot ensure the accuracy of the information generated by these tools and do not take responsibility for impacts to you or your organization.  You're free to use these tools, test them, modify them, and share them if they can assist with your needs to report on CIP compliance.

## Introduction
Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) is a set of standards designed to protect the North American Bulk Electric System (BES).  CIP is a reliability standard, so while it has a lot of focus on security, proper documentation, and change management procedures, the underlying motive is to ensure the power grid stays up.  CIP is a complex set of standards and leaves a lot open to interpretation with regards to technical requirements.  There's no common tooling to ensure CIP requirements are met, so the aim of this project is to ease many of the simple but time-consuming tasks.

### The CIP Standards
| Standard Name | Title | Summary |
|---------------|-------|---------|
|CIP-002-5.1a*|Cyber Security - BES Cyber System Categorization|This standard requires assets to be categorized when commissioned and again every 15 calendar months (a "CIP year").|

## Tools to build
- [ ] Build a questionnaire tool to ensure repetetive CIP tasks are taking place. Possible yearly calendar mock-up?
- [ ] Build a tool to capture configuration baselines (CIP-010-4 R1.1)
- [ ] Build a tool to run vulnerability assessments (CIP-010-4 R3)